Github repository by trainer - https://github.com/RajeshThakur1/BMGR-MAY2025-GIAI-2.git ------- (Please clone the "README.md" file for all the commands given by Trainer !!! Do it regularly and copy the content into your file "CommandsToUse.txt") 

  

My repository - https://github.com/GautamGripen/GenAI-AgenticAICERT.git 

  

--> TIP - Create different environments as then there wont be any clash between rojects  

--> IDE used - PyCharm 

--> Open source distribution - Anaconda (miniconda for package manager) 

--> For sharing the link, trainer will upload in https://codeshare.io/YzdOzY 

--> Ollama is like an emulator which helps in running LLMs locally in your machine. It runs the model similar to docker using the command "ollama run <model_name>". Advantage is that you will have data privacy. 

--> If Ollama doesn't work, use docker to run LLMs 

--> The cloud site to run LLMs withiout utilising your local machine - https://console.groq.com/home 

--> Why Use Anaconda? 

ans- It gives you all the standard packages used in scientific computing in a convenient package without having to worry about installing them all individually with their dependencies. 

  

If you don't plan on using typical scientific computing packages (numpy, matplotlib, scipy, pandas, etc.) or any of the packaged software (jupyter notebooks, spyder IDE), then the only downside is that you're downloading software that you might not need. 

  

Regardless if you go with a distribution like Anaconda or just a fresh python environment, it's useful to learn about environment management and package installation with pip and venv or conda. 

  

Besides the convenience, there's not going to be a major difference between using anaconda vs setting up your own environment. It's all the same python underneath the hood. 

  

ALSO --- 

  

I tend to install Miniconda (Anaconda’s much smaller sibling distribution) as a way to get ‘conda’ (the package manager), and then use conda to create environments for each project. 

  

Conda has some really nice features: 

  

You can entirely define an environment, including the version of python, using ‘environment.yml’ files 

  

It has a much more powerful dependency solver than pip, making it less likely you’ll end up with an inconsistent environment 

  

It tries to install everything as a transaction 

  

It (sort of) works with pip 

  

The Anaconda team maintains the core scientific stack you get when you install Anaconda, but the the “conda forge” channel includes a lot of the other major Python packages not included in Anaconda. 

  

--> Python is a interpreter based language, it makes it slow at the same time but then very dynamic. In programming, an interpreter is a program that executes instructions written in a high-level language by translating them one line at a time into machine code or an intermediate representation, and then immediately running that translated code. Unlike compilers, which translate the entire program before execution, interpreters process and execute code in real-time.  

Here's a more detailed explanation:  

Execution: 

Interpreters execute code directly, meaning they don't create a separate executable file like compilers do. 

Line-by-line translation: 

Interpreters read and translate one line of code at a time, and then execute that translated line. 

Real-time processing: 

This line-by-line approach allows for immediate execution and debugging, as errors can be caught and corrected as the program runs. 

Common use: 

Interpreters are often used for scripting languages and languages where real-time interaction and debugging are important, like Python, Ruby, and JavaScript. 

Performance: 

Interpreted languages can sometimes have slightly slower execution speeds than compiled languages, as they need to perform the translation at runtime. 

What is an Interpreter? Types, Differences, Advantages ... 

An interpreter is a program that directly executes the instructions in a high-level language, without converting it into machine c... 

  

toppr.com 

What is Interpreter: Types, Advantages and Disadvantages - Shiksha Online 

16 Aug 2023 — An interpreter is a type of computer program that directly executes instructions written in a programming or scripting ... 

  

Shiksha 

  

What is an Interpreter? - Naukri Code 360 

13 Jul 2024 — An interpreter is a program that executes code directly, translating it line-by-line into machine language at runtime. 

  

Naukri.com 

  

  

--> While we execute fast API output throug webpage, we will just add "/docs " at the end of the url and access the functions. Root is always the Home page of the webpage. When we execute the function, the curl out can be called from any API tool like postman etc.. 

  

curl -X 'POST' \ 

  'http://127.0.0.1:5001/add?a=78&b=45.365' \ 

  -H 'accept: application/json' \ 

  -d '' 

   

--> whenver we are developing API, always have root mentioned !! 

  

--> Open WebUI 

  

Open WebUI is an extensible, feature-rich, and user-friendly self-hosted AI platform designed to operate entirely offline. It supports various LLM runners like Ollama and OpenAI-compatible APIs, with built-in inference engine for RAG, making it a powerful AI deployment solution. 

  

--> RAG 

  

Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) is a software architecture that combines the capabilities of large language models (LLMs) with external information sources. This approach enhances LLMs by enabling them to access and utilize external knowledge to generate more accurate, up-to-date, and relevant text. 

  

Key Concepts of RAG: 

Retrieval: 

RAG systems first retrieve relevant information from external sources, such as databases, documents, or web pages, using search algorithms. 

Augmentation: 

The retrieved information is then combined with the LLM's existing knowledge to generate a response. 

Generation: 

The LLM synthesizes the retrieved information and its own internal knowledge to produce a complete and accurate response.  

  

How RAG Works: 

1. User Input: 

A user poses a question or provides a prompt to the LLM.  

2. Information Retrieval: 

The RAG system uses search algorithms to identify and retrieve relevant information from external data sources.  

3. Context Enrichment: 

The retrieved information is combined with the user's prompt and fed back into the LLM.  

4. Response Generation: 

The LLM generates a response that is grounded in both its own knowledge and the retrieved external information.  

Benefits of RAG: 

Improved Accuracy: 

RAG systems can provide more accurate responses by incorporating external knowledge.  

Enhanced Relevance: 

RAG systems can generate responses that are more relevant to the user's query.  

Reduced Hallucinations: 

RAG systems can help to reduce the likelihood of LLMs generating incorrect or misleading information.  

Access to Up-to-Date Information: 

RAG systems can access and incorporate external data that is not part of the LLM's training data, allowing it to provide up-to-date information.  

Transparency and Trust: 

RAG systems can provide citations or references to source documents, enhancing transparency and user trust.  

  

  

--> Docker username - gautam7777 

  

--> for installing open-webui in windows, follow bellow instructions 

  

Manual Installation 

There are two main ways to install and run Open WebUI: using the uv runtime manager or Python's pip. While both methods are effective, we strongly recommend using uv as it simplifies environment management and minimizes potential conflicts. 

  

Installation with uv (Recommended) 

The uv runtime manager ensures seamless Python environment management for applications like Open WebUI. Follow these steps to get started: 

  

1. Install uv 

Pick the appropriate installation command for your operating system: 

  

macOS/Linux: 

  

curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh 

  

Windows: 

  

powershell -ExecutionPolicy ByPass -c "irm https://astral.sh/uv/install.ps1 | iex" 

  

  

2. Run Open WebUI 

Once uv is installed, running Open WebUI is a breeze. Use the command below, ensuring to set the DATA_DIR environment variable to avoid data loss. Example paths are provided for each platform: 

  

macOS/Linux: 

  

DATA_DIR=~/.open-webui uvx --python 3.11 open-webui@latest serve 

  

Windows: 

  

$env:DATA_DIR="C:\open-webui\data"; uvx --python 3.11 open-webui@latest serve 

  

  

--> For listing down the containers in Docker, we use the command "docker ps" 

--> Tuple V/S List

Tuples are immutable objects and lists are mutable objects. Once defined, tuples have a fixed length and lists have a dynamic length. Tuples use less memory and are faster to access than to lists. Tuple syntax uses round brackets or parenthesis, and list syntax uses square brackets.

  

  

  

 